
## Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project Overview:
This repository is composed of the files necessary to complete the Coursera Johns Hopkins University's Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project Assignment.  
The goal of this project was to prepare a tidy data set that could be used for later analysis from untidy data provided in: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones.  
This data represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Smasung Galaxy S smartphone, gathered from an experiment on a series of subjects performing a series of activities.  
More information on this data can be found in the Codebook on this repo.  
A brief description on the script used to transform this raw data into tidy data follows after the Contents.

The new created data set in tidy_data.txt can be read into and viewed in R with: 

``` 
 data <- read.table("tidy_data.txt", header = TRUE)
 View(data)
```
(as suggested in https://thoughtfulbloke.wordpress.com/2015/09/09/getting-and-cleaning-the-assignment/)

## Repository Contents:
 * **README.md** : This file. Provides an overview of repository contents, the project and the script used.
 * **Codebook.md**: Codebook describing the variables, the data, and atransformations and work performed to clean up the data.
 * **run_analysis.R** : R script used to read and transform the raw data into a tidy dataset.
 * **tidy_data.txt**: The tidy data set requested in the assignment (generated by run_analysis.R). 

## run_analysis.R Script Overview:

This is the R script that performs the analysis requested by the assignment and which consists of the folowing steps:

 * Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
 * Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
 * Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
 * Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
 * From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

Each step in run_analysis.R is commented with a brief explanation.  
This script assumes that you have the "UCI HAR Dataset" folder (the provided data) in your working directory.
